In our broadcast for this month, we're going to discuss the quality of patients.
Think of how many situations we encounter that require patients,
waiting to rush our traffic, dealing with a difficult co-worker, raising a child,
overcoming marital problems, coping with the illness of a loved one,
or maybe coping with an illness of our own.
Clearly, all of us face situations that require us to display a measure of patients each day.
If we don't have patients, we can become frustrated, tired, and discouraged.
But no matter what our circumstances are, all of us can develop this quality.
How do we know?
Because according to Galatians 5-22, patients is an aspect of the fruitage of God's spirit.
And with its help, we can make this quality an integral part of our personality.
For this to happen, let's now answer two important questions.
First, how can being patient help us to express our love for Jehovah?
And second, how can being patient improve our relationship with others?
Let's start with our first question.
How can being patient help us to express our love for Jehovah?
Let's consider what stated in 1 Corinthians chapter 13.
This chapter gives us a description of how love manifests itself.
Please follow along as I read verse 4.
Love is patient and kind.
Love is not jealous.
It does not brag. It does not give puffed up.
Of all the many qualities to stem from love, did you note which one is listed first?
Patients.
It is an integral aspect of love.
We need both love and patience in order to be successful and ensure we're on the right course,
which includes pleasing Jehovah.
If we think of situations where a lack of patience was a factor,
we can usually identify where a lack of love was evident.
Take for example, God shows in people the nation of Israel.
In Psalm 106, written many years after Israel's deliverance from Egypt,
the Psalmist indicates that they continued acting with a similar disposition.
Despite that, Jehovah extended patience to them for many years.
Please follow along as I read Psalm 106, verses 7 and 8.
Our forefathers in Egypt did not appreciate your wonderful works.
They did not remember your abundant loyal love,
but they rebelled at the sea by the red sea.
But he saved them for the sake of his name to make his mightiness known.
And what was the result?
Let's read verse 13.
But they quickly forgot what he did.
They did not wait for his counsel.
How sad.
The people did not wait.
They were not patient.
And that highlights that they did not appreciate Jehovah's patience and loyal love.
Love for God should have caused them to think about the consequences of their actions.
They should have remembered how Jehovah cared and provided for them.
That should have moved them to be patient and wait on Jehovah's direction.
But time and again, their actions show that they really didn't love Jehovah as they should have.
And it costs them.
They eventually tested Jehovah's patience to the limit.
And as a nation, lost his favor.
What can you and I learn from their example?
Never would we want to become independent of Jehovah trusting in our own thinking
and not patiently waiting for Jehovah's counsel to direct the decisions we make.
Think about how well we've been guided recently regarding the pandemic.
Natural disasters.
And the organizing of our ministry.
Even if we didn't fully understand or even fully agree with all the decisions.
Our love for God helped us to take the time to think about Jehovah's care for us and trust him.
By doing so, we learned that if we're patient and submit to Jehovah's direction,
we won't go off course and will benefit ourselves and others.
And in doing so, we ultimately express our love for Jehovah.
Let's now answer the second question.
How can being patient improve our relationship with others?
If we go back to 1 Corinthians 13-4, the study note states,
patience is a quality that Jehovah and Jesus constantly show in their dealings with humans.
As imitators of Jesus and Jehovah, Christians are to show patience to others.
So if Jehovah and Jesus are patient with us,
it would follow that we imitate their example and be patient with others.
Let's start with the greatest example, Jehovah.
Think about the patience he's shown in waiting to bring an end to this system.
Jehovah has a fixed day and hour when that will take place.
And he's patiently waiting until that arrives.
He's bound himself to his own timetable.
Now rest assured, Jehovah is well aware of how we feel as his servants.
He knows that we wish the end of this system to come as soon as possible
and that we long to see the fulfillment of all his promises
and he longs to fulfill them.
But he will not become impatient and act before his appointed time.
Why should we appreciate Jehovah's patience in that regard?
Please follow along as I read 2 Peter 3-15.
Furthermore, consider the patience of our Lord as salvation.
Just as our beloved brother Paul also wrote you according to the wisdom given him.
Isn't that a powerful point?
Jehovah's patience is the means for our salvation.
Think about the number of people who are learning the truth every year.
Even during the pandemic, when we weren't able to engage in our typical house to house witnessing,
tens of thousands of individuals still got baptized worldwide.
Perhaps some of those included your Bible students, family members, close friends,
or maybe even you yourself.
And think about this.
If Jehovah had impatiently brought the end of this system,
five, ten, or twenty years ago,
would you have learned the truth?
So we appreciate that Jehovah is still patiently waiting for his day to arrive
and has allowed so many to attain to repentance and develop a relationship with him.
How should this affect our relationship with others?
Perhaps they can help us to be more patient with a progressive Bible student
who still may be struggling with a problem.
Or maybe it's still difficult for some of our relatives to see us as one of Jehovah's Witnesses
and to adjust to our beliefs and lifestyle.
But in imitation of Jehovah's patience, we won't give up on them.
And of course, reflecting on Jehovah's patience should move us to continue to have a full share in the ministry,
earnestly looking for those who are rightly disposed for everlasting life
and helping them to love Jehovah and serve him.
Then they too can benefit from Jehovah's patience just as we have.
We can also learn from the example of Jesus.
He demonstrated tremendous patience when his disciples were arguing among themselves as to who was the greatest.
This apparently happened on a number of occasions.
And no doubt is saddened Jesus to hear this.
But Jesus was patient with them.
He showed empathy for them.
He knew how much the culture and the environment in which they had been raised affected their thinking and attitude.
That knowledge caused him to react kindly.
Note one beautiful example.
Please read with me March 9.
March 9.33.35
And they came into Capernaum.
Now, when he was inside the house, he put the question to them,
what were you arguing about on the road?
Well, we know the answer.
They had been arguing about who among them was the greater.
Look at verse 35.
So he sat down and called the 12 and said to them,
if anyone wants to be first, he must be lastable and ministerable.
Did you know what Jesus did?
He patiently waited for the right time to correct them kindly.
He didn't make a scene on the road.
Verse 33.
He waited until he was inside the house.
Verse 35.
Sitting down.
He calmed the situation.
He didn't push them.
Instead, he led them patiently by instruction and by example.
What a great example in avoiding becoming provoked.
And instead of acting immediately, waiting for the right time to address matters,
even when our patients is tested.
What else can we take away from Jesus' example of patients?
If you're a parent,
can you imitate the way that Jesus dealt with his apostles?
It may be frustrating if your children don't respond immediately to your counsel,
or if they're slow in correcting their shortcomings, or perhaps you're an elder.
And someone you're trying to help may be slow when responding to Bible-based counsel.
But remember Jesus' example.
He never gave up on his apostles.
He kept looking for the good, expressing confidence in them,
and patiently repeated lessons that they needed so that they could draw closer to Jehovah.
If we do the same, not giving up,
our patients may eventually be rewarded as well.
So to review,
how can being patient help us to express our love for Jehovah?
It stops us from running ahead of Jehovah, demonstrating our loyal love for him.
Waiting patiently for Jehovah's direction and guidance ensures that our course is pleasing to him.
And second, how can being patient improve our relationship with others?
It helps us to avoid acting rashly,
and to look for the good in others, and express confidence in them.
Hopefully, this discussion will help us appreciate the benefit of displaying patients in our lives.
With the increasing pressures of these last days,
we'll need to display patients more than ever before.
Imitating the patients of Jehovah and Jesus will help us keep the right attitude.
We won't become overly discouraged or overwhelmed by the present wickedness in this system,
or even be impatient about when it will end.
Instead, we'll stay on the right course,
keeping busy, working to develop a closer relationship with Jehovah,
and keeping active in our ministry, helping others to learn about Jehovah and benefit from his patients.
May all of us keep working to make the quality of patients a dominant part of our personality.
As we do,
we will demonstrate how much we value and appreciate this wonderful quality
and bring all praise and honor to Jehovah.